svg2mf README
*************

`svg2mf' is a very simple program that performs a basic, rudimentary,
and lossy conversion from an Inkscape 0.46 SVG file to a Metafont
source, that really isn't a meta-font, but just a font.  To build it,
you need `expat' on your system, along with the associated developer
files so that `svg2mf' can parse XML files.  (Or, in other words,
parse XML files without rewriting a mini-XML parser within svg2mf!)

Note that this has only been tested on Inkscape 0.46 SVGs.  Looking at
the SVG specification, it will definitely fail when processing SVG
images from other programs, optimizer programs in particular.  Right
now, this converter is written to be extremely simple and only
performs the bare minimum during conversion: only Inkscape plain
paths, ellipses, and rectangles are converted.  Also, transformations
(usually) must have already been applied.  These limitations can be
easily overcome by expanding this proof-of-concept code.

Why convert an SVG image to a Metafont program?  Well, there really
isn't any modern-day reason, unless for some odd reason you want to
reuse Metafont's bitmap rendering and Generic Font File generation
mechanisms to get freehand graphics into the formats that only
Metafont can generate.

If you are wondering what else should be done to use this program in a
more heavyweight way, here's what:

* Add code that explicitly handles SVG, Sodipodi, and Inkscape
  namespaces.

* Add support for MetaPost coloring.

* Add code to process transformations for all SVG objects and wrap
  them in `begingroup ... endgroup' constructs rather than for just
  groups (and ellipses).  Also make sure that the `begingroup
  ... endgroup' construction actually saves the current transform (I
  haven't tested it yet, so it might not work).

Note that the real reason why this "converter" hasn't been finished is
because you really can't convert a font to a meta-font: a meta-font
specifies higher-level intents that a font cannot.  Therefore, this
program should only be viewed as an assitive tool to help beginners
move faster up the path of creating a meta-font: rather than
hand-drawing contours on graph paper and entering the coordinates into
the computer as Knuth did for the "El Palo Alto" tree depicted in the
METAFONTbook, a moderner would draw preliminary lines and contours
within a vector graphics editor, then convert those vector graphics
into a preliminary Metafont source, then clean up, parameterize, and
explain the resulting code to create the Metafont source file (and
then of course test the font and build parameter files).

Some XML namespaces that this code probably should be changed to check
for:
xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
xmlns:sodipodi="http://sodipodi.sourceforge.net/DTD/sodipodi-0.dtd"

For more information on how to do this code right, see the SVG
specification: <http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG11>.
